Great to see you again Gordon,
I have a few more questions for you about AI and finance.
How is AI being used in finance today?
What applications have you seen used successfully or unsuccessfully?
AI is being used in a lot of places.
So first of all,
some of the same technologies that are useful in
many industries such as image recognition are also very useful in finance.
Just as the post office needs to recognize zip codes,
banks need to recognize cheques,
they need to recognize images of people for security purposes,
firms that trade oil are using images of oil tankers
from satellite data to predict oil supply and demand et cetera.
Beyond that, there are various machine learning technologies that deal with prediction.
So, I think anything can appear intelligent if it
makes sufficiently accurate predictions.
So, examples there, it might include a prediction of whether
a given credit transaction will turn out to have been fraudulent based on its attributes.
Another important example in finance there is algorithmic order execution.
So, predicting whether or not
a given order placement strategy will actually result in the order getting filled,
is a prediction problem that AI has been applied to.
Those are all examples of successful applications.
Where I have not seen much success to date is applying AI to asset return prediction,
at least not without a lot of human guidance behind it.
What advice would you give to someone looking to apply AI in finance?
Well, if you want to apply AI in finance,
you should definitely remember to consider the signal to noise ratio in the data,
and the potential for overfitting.
We talk about this a bit in the project.
So traditionally, AI does not do very well in data
scarce situations where you have relatively low signal-to-noise ratios.
How do you think AI will change finance?
I think AI will change finance by enabling humans to sift through
and effectively utilize the petabytes of data that are now being created,
and use those data in their trading decisions.
So for example, imagine a terminal that could show
you the exact news stories that are relevant to the problem you've been thinking about,
and predict a trade that you're likely to do based on that news,
and predict what the cost of that trade will be with various brokers.
So things like that.
Right now, sifting and sorting through huge masses of
financial data is still not completely straightforward,
and I think firms like investment banks that have a lot of valuable data are only just
now learning how to collect it and
present it to their clients to help them make trading decisions.
What types of career opportunities do you see now and
envision in the future for someone with skills in both AI and finance?
I think there are lots and lots of career opportunities,
and there will be for the foreseeable future.
I don't think this is some passing fad.
In fact, I think every financial firm in the world,
if you talk to them they would most likely be able to find a prediction problem
where they wish they can make predictions in an automated and more accurate way,
and that's essentially what machine learning is about.
Someone once said machine learning is prediction.
For example, even something like mobile robot navigation is prediction.
The robot is trying to predict what will happen if it moves its motors in a certain way.
Well, that's all the questions I have.
Thanks so much for talking with me Gordon.
Thank you very much.